# Copilot Extensibility Team Retro - August 20, 2025

## Overview
This document summarizes the retrospective board for the Copilot Extensibility Team from their retro meeting on 8/20/2025.

---

## Ice Breaker: If you were an inanimate object, what would you be?

**Team Responses:**
- "What I would like to be: Something versatile, maybe like a plate bowl or a super functional bag. What I would probably be: A radio"
- "I would want to be a enigmatic and unique work of art that has at least a hundred year run in a museum somewhere and then gets burned down in a large fire." ‚Üê Team member noted: "I like this answer, great storyline"
- "Porsche 911 Turbo S or Super sonic Jet"
- "A plate of warm chocolate chip cookies"
- "Stuffed animal"
- "Old man's breath moss. It's moss that only grows in the cleanest air in rainforests"

---

## Positives (What Went Well)

### Team & Onboarding
- **WELCOME DAN!!** + kudos on your first gh/gh pr!
- Thanks everyone for allowing me to ask dumb questions / feel like a part of the team!!!
- Welcome Dan we're so glad you're here! and already hitting it out of the park with a fast PR fix!
- Mentoring Dan has been a lot of fun

### On-Call Improvements
- On call feels getting better compared to a month ago
- On call feels less like a nightmare, thanks for all the work everyone's done shoring things up to be better!!!
- Oncall has seemed to calm down some
- Only got paged once (and it was transient)
- On call less with new folks joining the rotation

### Collaboration & Teamwork
- People pairing more on epics together this month, love this!!!
- Huge shout out to Brandyn, Kinsey and others who helped with the proxima work and testing the surface areas of CCA. Great job team, a lot went into it.
- Brandyn is so great at writing code, devops, all the things
- Yay Emily - thanks for sunsetting extensions!!
- Shoutout to Ray for driving the Job queuing work with Colby and ensuring we are ready for GA in general. We have made some amazing progress there.
- Belal and I got to do happy hour in NYC, working together in a co working space was sooo fun!!
- Emily, Brandyn, Ray, and Abhinav took me in as a fake seattilite for a week and that was awesome

### Project Progress
- Excited to be a DRI on sunsetting extensions, I love breaking down tasks (I think)
- Excited Ray is stepping in as a our interim manager

### Team Structure
- Cool that our new interim manager is Ray and not some rando I have to get used to complaining to in 1-1
- Nice to hear about the different vacations everyone is taking s/o to cool biking tours
- The agent-session-experience team seems to be developing and it's kind of nice to see some more structure for surrounding teams

---

## Learnings, Questions, Concerns

### Support & First Responder Work
- Support escalations? (seems like Tim is just doing these, should we help as FR, do we have bandwidth)?
- Hold ourselves accountable to actually solve FR issues and not feature work - but it feels like that work gets you less "points"
- Refine FR backlog

**Action Items:**
- Route to public team channel to create issues
- Ask folks to file issues instead of interrupts
- We had something like this that automatically added the first responder label on the copilot-extensibility repo, and then a board that listed PRs and Issues with the label

### Clarity & Organization
- Previously we've discussed lack of clarity on the next steps/vision. I think we've made improvements here with planning/release issues/demo meeting etc. Curious if folks feel the same? If not, what is missing?
- Can still be lack of clarity on DRI, who owns what especially with external teams?
- I have no idea who is in the coding-agent-team channel and their relevance, sometimes that context would be nice
  - Response: "It's our skip level channel ;) . And everyone else working on CCA. One GitHub"
- Universe launches are still not solidified
  - Response: "We're starting to populate them in release issues. search for 'universe release' in the label + Tim as the author in github/releases"

**Action Items:**
- High-level overview of what's coming in larger group meetings
- Whole org running and communicating more clearly

### Communication Challenges
- Lots of DM interrupts - maybe i just need to ignore people more
  - Response: "No, there's definitely just a lot of slack noise"
- So hard to keep up with discussions in Slack, etc. but feel like I am missing out on important conversations
- I keep getting tagged to fix blackbird issues / MCP in general
  - Response: "Do you think it's organizational? Belal is The MCP Guy vs. Belal is on a team"

**Action Items:**
- Try out tools to summarize slack?
  - "Maybe we needs Teams :haha Also have you checked out the Slack AI thing? It does give you summarized Recaps"
  - "Please put me on the Slack AI methodology"
- There are some good ways we could make this work better for us -- like have a github action that does something, like create a FR item. (Maybe slack???) Yes, I have written something that does something like that before lol.

### Workload & Burnout
- Burned a candle at both ends for Proxima stuff for over a month. The whole epic wasn't organized well, but I'm happy it's landing.
- Feels a little bit like the sessions experience is getting a lot of the shiny new toy
- Curious if we've had a voice at the table when it comes to talk about going to GA - what's the additional load on the team expected?

### Planning & Priorities
- Next brown bag topic
- When will our offsite be...
  - Response: "Tim is working to set this in stone, should be next week or two"
  - "October? But also maybe not just before universe. Basically TBD but probably after universe"

**Action Items:**
- Already pairing and doing brownbags
- Be kind to yourself with timelines / estimates (spend time in beginning to get estimate) - will help us avoid over-committing
- Assign copilot to write docs on our code (Cal)

---

## Lacked/Do Less (Negatives)

*Note: This section was defined on the board but no specific items were captured in the retrieved content.*

---

## Take Aways

### Example Mentioned:
- "Being focused on fewer things worked better"

---

## Board Notes
- The board included a "Quick tips" section with helpful FigJam tools and keyboard shortcuts
- Instructions reminded team members to:
  - "If you particularly agree with someone's post-it, add a react!"
  - "Please try to limit 1-2 post-its per category per person"

---

## Summary Statistics
- **Positives:** 20+ items celebrating team wins, improvements, and collaboration
- **Questions/Concerns:** 15+ items focused on improving processes, clarity, and communication
- **Key Themes:** Onboarding success, on-call improvements, communication challenges, need for better organization

---

*Document generated from Figma board: https://www.figma.com/board/eW7FOoRkgHdc6jwbzsLG4M/Copilot-Extensibility-Team-Retro-7-23-2025--Copy-?node-id=0-1*
