# Copilot Extensibility Team Retro Summary (8/20/2025)

## Overview
This document summarizes the team retrospective held on August 20, 2025 for the Copilot Extensibility Team.

---

## Ice Breaker: If You Were an Inanimate Object

Team members shared creative responses about what inanimate objects they'd like to be:

- **Versatile functionality**: A plate bowl or super functional bag (though realistically, a radio)
- **Artistic**: An enigmatic and unique work of art with a hundred-year museum run that ends dramatically in a fire
- **High-performance**: Porsche 911 Turbo S or Supersonic Jet
- **Comforting**: A plate of warm chocolate chip cookies
- **Cozy**: A stuffed animal
- **Natural/Pure**: Old man's breath moss (moss that only grows in the cleanest air in rainforests)

---

## Positives

### Team Growth & Collaboration
- **Welcome Dan!** ðŸŽ‰ Kudos on his first gh/gh PR
- People are pairing more on epics together this month - team loves this increased collaboration
- Mentoring Dan has been fun
- Thanks to everyone for allowing new members to ask questions and feel like part of the team
- Emily, Brandyn, Ray, and Abhinav welcomed a teammate in Seattle for a week
- Belal and teammate had NYC happy hour and co-working session - working together was so fun!

### Project Accomplishments
- **Proxima Work Success**: Huge shout out to Brandyn, Kinsey, and others who helped with proxima work and testing CCA surface areas. A lot went into it - great job team!
- **Job Queuing Progress**: Shoutout to Ray for driving job queuing work with Colby and ensuring readiness for GA. Amazing progress made
- **Extensions Sunsetting**: Excited about Emily being DRI on sunsetting extensions and breaking down tasks. Yay Emily!
- Fast PR fix from Dan already hitting it out of the park

### On-Call Improvements
- On call feels much better compared to a month ago
- On call feels less like a nightmare - thanks for all the work everyone's done shoring things up
- Only got paged once (and it was transient)
- On call has seemed to calm down
- On call less frequent with new folks joining the rotation

### Leadership & Management
- Ray stepping in as interim manager is exciting
- Cool that the new interim manager is Ray and not some rando to get used to complaining to in 1-1s
- Brandyn is great at writing code, devops, and all the things

### Team Dynamics
- Nice to hear about different vacations everyone is taking - shout out to cool biking tours
- The agent-session-experience team seems to be developing with more structure for surrounding teams

---

## Concerns, Questions & Areas to Improve (Lacked/Do Less)

### Support & Escalations
- **Support escalations**: Seems like Tim is just handling these - should the team help as First Responders? Do we have bandwidth?
- Keep getting tagged to fix Blackbird issues / MCP in general
- Issue: "Belal is The MCP Guy" vs. "Belal is on a team" - organizational perception problem

### Communication & Information Overload
- Lots of DM interrupts - maybe need to ignore people more
- Definitely a lot of Slack noise
- Hard to keep up with discussions in Slack but feel like missing out on important conversations
- No idea who is in the coding-agent-team channel and their relevance - sometimes context would be nice

### Clarity & Organization
- **Lack of clarity on DRI** - who owns what, especially with external teams?
- Previously discussed lack of clarity on next steps/vision. Made improvements with planning/release issues/demo meetings. Curious if folks feel the same? If not, what is missing?
- Universe launches are still not solidified (being populated in release issues now - search for "universe release" label + Tim as author)

### Work Distribution & Prioritization
- Burned candles at both ends for Proxima stuff for over a month - the whole epic wasn't organized well (but happy it's landing)
- Hold ourselves accountable to actually solve FR issues and not just feature work - but that work gets fewer "points"
- Feels like the sessions experience is getting a lot of the shiny new toy attention

### Upcoming Events
- When will the offsite be? (Answer: October, but probably not just before Universe. Basically TBD but probably after Universe)

---

## Action Items / Take Aways

### Process Improvements
- **Refine FR backlog** - prioritize first responder work
- **High-level overview** in larger group meetings of what's coming
- Route questions to public team channel to create issues instead of DM interrupts
- Ask folks to file issues instead of sending interrupts
- **Be kind to yourself with timelines/estimates** - spend time in the beginning to get good estimates to avoid over-committing

### Tools & Automation
- **Support escalation automation**: Consider GitHub action that creates FR items or Slack notifications
  - Team had something similar that automatically added first responder label on copilot-extensibility repo with a board listing PRs/Issues with the label
- **Try out Slack AI summarization tools** to help keep up with discussions
- **Assign Copilot to write docs** on the team's code (Cal)

### Team Collaboration
- **Continue pairing and brown bags** - already doing this well
- Whole org running and communicating more clearly

### Upcoming Milestones
- Universe launches need to be solidified (Tim working on this - should be set in stone next week or two)
- GA readiness and expected additional load on the team
- Offsite planning: Likely October, after Universe

---

## Questions for Follow-up

1. **First Responder Coverage**: How should the team handle support escalations? Should there be rotation or shared responsibility?
2. **GA Planning**: Has the team had a voice at the table when discussing GA? What's the expected additional load?
3. **Next Brown Bag Topic**: What should the next knowledge-sharing session cover?
4. **Vision Clarity**: Do team members feel there's sufficient clarity on next steps/vision with the current improvements (planning/release issues/demos)?

---

## Team Sentiment

### What's Working Well âœ…
- Improved on-call experience
- Better team collaboration and pairing
- Strong project delivery (Proxima, Job Queuing)
- Welcoming new team members effectively
- Leadership transition going smoothly

### Areas for Improvement ðŸ”„
- Communication overload and Slack noise
- DRI clarity, especially with external teams
- Work prioritization between feature work and FR issues
- Better epic organization and planning
- Reducing interrupt-driven work

---

## Meeting Format Notes

The retro used the following structure:
- **Quick Tips**: FigJam navigation and collaboration tips provided
- **Ice Breaker**: Creative question to start the meeting
- **Positives**: Team accomplishments and wins
- **Lacked/Do Less (Negatives)**: Areas for improvement
- **Learnings, Questions, Concerns**: Discussion topics
- **Take Aways**: Action items from the discussion

Participants were encouraged to:
- Limit 1-2 post-its per category per person
- Add reactions to posts they particularly agree with
